WORKSHEET-2
SQL
Q1 to Q13 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following constraints requires that there should not be duplicate entries? A) No Duplicity B) Different
C) Null D) Unique
Ans: D
   2. Which of the following constraints allows null values in a column? A) Primary key B) Empty Value
C) Null D) None of them
Ans: A
      3. Which of the following statements are true regarding Primary Key?
A) Each entry in the primary key uniquely identifies each entry or row in the table
B) There can be duplicate values in a primary key column C) There can be null values in Primary key
D) None of the above.
Ans: A
         4. Which of the following statements are true regarding Unique Key? A) There should not be any duplicate entries
B) Null values are not allowed
C) Multiple columns can make a single unique key together D) All of the above
Ans: D
            5. Which of the following is/are examples of referential constraint? A) Not Null B) Foreign Key
C) Referential key D) All of them
Ans: B
For Questions 6-13 refer to the below diagram and answer the questions:
               6. How many foreign keys are there in the Supplier table? A) 0 B) 3
C) 2 D) 1
Ans: D
                  7. The type of relationship between Supplier table and Product table is: A) one to many B) many to one
C) one to one D) many to many
Ans: A
                     8. The type of relationship between Order table and Headquarter table is: A) one to many B) many to one
C) one to one D) many to many
Ans: D
                        9. Which of the following is a foreign key in the Delivery table?A) delivery id B) supplier idC) delivery date D) None of them
Ans: C
                        10. The number of foreign keys in order details is:
A) 0 B) 1
C) 3 D) 2
Ans: C
                           11. The type of relationship between Order Detail table and Product table is:
A) one to many B) many to one
C) one to one D) many to many
Ans: B
                              12. DDL statements perform operations on which of the following database objects?
A) Rows of table B) Columns of table
C) Table D) None of them
Ans: C
                                 13. Which of the following statements is used to enter rows in a table?
A) Insert in to B) Update C) Enter into D) Set Row
Ans: A
Q14 and Q15 have one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options to answer your question.
                                    14. Which of the following is/are entity constraints in SQL? A) Duplicate B) Unique
C) Primary Key D) Null
Ans: B , C
                                       15. Which of the following statements is an example of semantic Constraint? A) A blood group can contain one of the following values - A, B, AB and O.
B) A blood group can only contain characters
C) A blood group cannot have null values
D) Two or more donors can have same blood group
Ans; A , D