Statistics– WORKSHEET 6
Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation? a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation
b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation
d) All of the mentioned
Ans: A
2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called
a) random
b) direct
c) binomial
d) none of the mentioned
Ans: C
3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial? a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) None of the mentioned
Ans: A
4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called: (a) Type-I error
(b) Type-II error (c) Standard error (d) Sampling error
Ans: A
5. Level of significance is also called: (a) Power of the test
(b) Size of the test
(c) Level of confidence
(d) Confidence coefficient
Ans: D
6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size:
(a) Decreases
(b) Increases
(c) Both of them
(d) None of them
Ans: B
7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data? (a) Probability
(b) Hypothesis
(c) Causal
(d) None of the mentioned
Ans: B
 
8. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference? (a) Minimize errors
(b) Minimize false positives
(c) Minimize false negatives
(d) All of the mentioned
Ans: D
9. Normalized data is centered at and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data.
(a) 0 (c) 1
(b) 5
(d) 10
Ans: A
Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What Is Bayes' Theorem? 
Ans: Bayes Theorem provides a principled way for calculating a conditional probability.
It is a deceptively simple calculation, although it can be used to easily calculate the conditional probability of events where intuition often fails.
Although it is a powerful tool in the field of probability, Bayes Theorem is also widely used in the field of machine learning. Including its use in a probability framework for fitting a model to a training dataset, referred to as maximum a posteriori or MAP for short, and in developing models for classification predictive modeling problems such as the Bayes Optimal Classifier and Naive Bayes.


11. What is z-score?
Ans: A z-score (also called a standard score) gives you an idea of how far from the mean a data point is. But more technically it’s a measure of how many standard deviations below or above the population mean a raw score is. 
A z-score can be placed on a normal distribution curve. Z-scores range from -3 standard deviations (which would fall to the far left of the normal distribution curve) up to +3 standard deviations (which would fall to the far right of the normal distribution curve). In order to use a z-score, you need to know the mean μ and also the population standard deviation σ. 
Z-scores are a way to compare results to a “normal” population. Results from tests or surveys have thousands of possible results and units; those results can often seem meaningless. For example, knowing that someone’s weight is 150 pounds might be good information, but if you want to compare it to the “average” person’s weight, looking at a vast table of data can be overwhelming (especially if some weights are recorded in kilograms). A z-score can tell you where that person’s weight is compared to the average population’s mean weight.


12. What is t-test?
Ans: A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. It is mostly used when the data sets, like the data set recorded as the outcome from flipping a coin 100 times, would follow a normal distribution and may have unknown variances. A t-test is used as a hypothesis testing tool, which allows testing of an assumption applicable to a population. 
A t-test looks at the t-statistic, the t-distribution values, and the degrees of freedom to determine the statistical significance. To conduct a test with three or more means, one must use an analysis of variance.


13. What is a percentile? 
Ans: Percentiles indicate the percentage of scores that fall below a particular value. They tell you where a score stands relative to other scores. For example, a person with an IQ of 120 is at the 91st percentile, which indicates that their IQ is higher than 91 percent of other scores.
Percentiles are a great tool to use when you need to know the relative standing of a value. Where does a value fall within a distribution of values? While the concept behind percentiles is straight forward, there are different mathematical methods for calculating them. In this post, learn about percentiles, special percentiles and their surprisingly flexible uses, and the various procedures for calculating them.


14. What is ANOVA?
Ans: An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help you to figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis. 
Basically, you’re testing groups to see if there’s a difference between them. Examples of when you might want to test different groups:
* A group of psychiatric patients are trying three different therapies: counseling, medication and biofeedback. You want to see if one therapy is better than the others.
* A manufacturer has two different processes to make light bulbs. They want to know if one process is better than the other.
* Students from different colleges take the same exam. You want to see if one college outperforms the other.


15. How can ANOVA help?
Ans: An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help you to figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis. Basically, you're testing groups to see if there's a difference between them.